- Hey, guys!
Today is our second episode in our
"When Homemade is Worth It" series.
And today we are tackling pasta sauces.
Pasta sauces are one of those things
that are so much better when
you make them from scratch.
They're so easy to do.
They're more affordable.
And I'm telling you, you'll never
go back to that stuff in a jar.
Today I'm going to show you three
of my favorite, all time
homemade pasta sauces.
First up, let's start with a classic,
a pomodoro sauce.
Now, pomodoro is essentially just tomato,
garlic, a little bit of olive oil,
and of course, fresh basil.
It doesn't get any easier than this.
It's also a really
inexpensive idea for dinner.
So if you're looking for a cheap eat,
this one is for you.
So we're first going to boil our pasta.
Now, I really love to serve this sauce
with an angel hair pasta
because it cooks up so quickly
and it also looks really elegant
if you want to serve
this for a dinner party.
While your pasta is boiling,
you can prep your tomatoes.
So we're going to use
Roma tomatoes for this.
I think that they tend to work the best.
We're just going to slice them in half
and then give them a quick dice
so that they're nice, bite-sized pieces.
Then in a large skillet
you're going to heat
some olive oil,
throw the tomatoes in,
and start to give them a nice saute.
You're basically looking
for those tomatoes
to start to break down and
create a little bit of a juice.
At this point you want to throw in
one clove of minced garlic.
Now, if you have a garlic press,
I highly recommend it
because you'll get a really
nice even mince that way.
Go ahead and let that simmer.
And at this point if
you want your tomatoes
to be a little bit saucier,
you can either add a splash of white wine,
a squeeze of lemon juice,
or a little bit of water.
Go ahead and just let that simmer down.
And you'll see a beautiful
sauce will develop.
You can season it with a little
salt and pepper to taste.
You may want to add a little bit more salt
than you normally would to food
because the thing to
know about pasta sauce
is that when the sauce hits that pasta,
that pasta is going to
soak up all that sauce
and also all of that salt.
So you may just want to take it
a little bit further
than you normally would
just to make sure it's well flavored.
And at that point you're
going to add the fresh basil,
give that a stir,
and presto, your sauce is done.
At this point I like to take the pasta
and add it to my sauce,
give it a good stir,
making sure that all
of that sauce and pasta
is well incorporated.
And then you can serve.
I love to serve pasta
with some kitchen tongs
because I find that it's a really easy way
to grip the pasta, twist, and turn it
into a nice, pretty nest.
Then you can garnish with
a little fresh Parmesan,
a sprig of basil, and there you have it,
a delicious, easy pasta sauce
that came together in minutes.
Now we're going to go from something light
to something heavy and decadent.
Sometimes you are just in the mood
for something really
naughty, and this is it.
Pasta Alfredo.
It doesn't get much better than this.
Now, Alfredo sauce is really
best paired with fettuccine.
I think it's a classic combination
that you can't go wrong.
So go ahead and get
your fettuccine boiling.
Then we're going to prepare our sauce.
We're going to take out a large skillet.
We're going to add four
tablespoons of butter.
Let that melt down.
And then you're going to add
a cup and 1/2 of heavy cream.
I know.
This is why it's naughty. (chuckles)
But this is also why it's really good.
I have tried it with
milk and half and half,
and it's just not the same.
So you got to kind of use
the full fat heavy cream.
Once your sauce is nice
and simmering and bubbling,
you can add a clove of garlic.
So the garlic is basically going
to steep in that warm cream
and it's going to create a
beautiful infused garlic flavor
throughout our sauce.
Then we're going to add
1/2 a teaspoon of salt,
a little bit of freshly cracked pepper,
and then you're going
to let the sauce simmer
just until it starts
to bubble and thicken.
Once it reaches that stage,
you can go ahead and add a cup
of freshly grated Parmesan cheese.
Then because this sauce
is so rich and decadent,
I do like to add some vegetables in there.
So I really like to add 1/3
of a cup of frozen peas.
They'll cook up in a minute.
All you have to do is
add them to the sauce
and give them a quick stir.
Then when your fettuccine is done,
you can add it to your pasta sauce,
give it a good stir,
making sure that all of that sauce
and the peas are incorporating
with the fettuccine.
Go ahead and take those kitchen tongs
and serve it into your shallow bowl,
give it a twist,
and then you're going to garnish
with a little bit more
freshly cracked pepper,
and some roughly chopped parsley.
And there you have it,
pasta sauce number two down,
fettuccine Alfredo,
a classic that I know you
guys are going to love.
Now moving on to one
of my favorite sauces,
pesto sauce.
Pesto is a great sauce
to know and have on hand,
especially as we're headed
into the summer months
and basil is in season.
The other reason why I like pesto sauce
is that it's equally
good served hot or cold.
It makes for a perfect
salad to bring to a picnic
or a great weeknight meal as well.
Now, when it comes to pesto sauce,
I really love to serve it with
that little corkscrew pasta
because I find that it really does get
into all the nooks and
crannies of the pasta
and holds the sauce really well.
So to get started, in a food processor
we're going to add two cups of basil,
a clove of garlic,
three tablespoons of pine nuts,
a 1/2 a teaspoon of salt,
and 1/4 teaspoon of
freshly cracked pepper.
Go ahead and give that a whirl.
And then you want to scrape
down the bowl periodically
just to make sure that all that basil
is becoming finely minced
and incorporating with the pine nuts.
Then with the machine running,
you're going to slowly
add 1/4 cup of olive oil.
And you'll see a beautiful
sauce will develop.
Then you're going to stop your machine,
transfer your pesto sauce into a bowl,
and then add your grated Parmesan cheese.
Now, when heating pesto sauce,
you'll want to be careful
because you don't want to burn the cheese.
And sometimes what'll happen
is the sauce will
actually separate on you.
So the better thing to do, I think,
is to take the cold pesto sauce
and mix it with the warm pasta.
And chances are the heat from the pasta
will actually heat the sauce.
And you'll be good to go.
Go ahead and serve your pasta in a bowl,
top with a little more
grated Parmesan cheese,
garnish with a little sprig of basil,
and there you have it.
Pasta pesto sauce is ready to go.
I love this recipe because it
has all the flavors of summer.
It's a great filling dish
that makes for a perfect
dinner party entree
or again a cold lunch the next day.
So there you have it, my
three favorite pasta sauces.
I hope you guys give these ones a try.
Let me know what you think.
They are all classics that
you cannot go wrong with.
And I tell you, once you make
your own homemade pasta sauce,
you're never going to go
back to that stuff in a jar.
If you'd like the full printed
recipe to these dishes,
you can head over to my website,
EntertainingWithBeth.com
or you can find the full recipe
in the video description here below.
All right, you guys.
I'll see you next time, bye!
(upbeat music)
♫ Make it ooze with the unthinkable
♫ Don't stop till you come first
♫ Life so unpredictable
♫ Take control of what you're worth
♫ Wasting time's forgivable
♫ But nobody wants to grow old
♫ It's time for the original
♫ To come and break the mold
♫ Take it easy
♫ Just one step at a time
♫ And baby you'll be fine ♫